<P>Nanotechnology for Dummies: A Reference for the Rest of Us!

<P>Introduction:

<P>Nanotechnology. Since the promising emergence of the concept of nanotechnology in the 1980's, its chief application has unfortunately been as the phlebtonium of science-fiction writers. However, every passing year has moved nanotechnology a little further from fiction and closer to reality, with nano-technological processes already being utilized to improve existing industrial products, such as material coatings, sunscreens, computer chips, and textiles (that's right, your clothes may have nanotechnology in them!). Nanotechnology is, technically, the engineering of functional systems at the molecular scale, or, in layman's terms, the creation of tiny robots so small that scientists decide where each individual atom needs to go. These mechanisms are on the scale of 1-100 nm (nanometers) or 1 billionth of a meter. To give you an idea of the size, a nanometer is the amount an average man's beard grows in the time it takes him to raise the razor to his face!

<P>Atoms are the fundamental building blocks of everything you see around you, and scientists believe that nanotechnology will soon provide us with the tools to control and reposition them, giving humanity an unprecendented level of power over the natural world, and impacting our way of life in profound and hitherto unimagined ways.

<P>Imagine... clean abundant energy; efficient, pollution-free material production; effortless, thorough environmental restoration; safe and affordable space travel; quantum leaps in medicine towards perfect health or even, immortality! Obviously, in the face of such changes, some predict that nearly all contemporary industrial and economic paradigms will become obsolete by the first half of the new century, leading to radical and global changes in life style, finance, law, politics, and every aspect of human endeavour.
<P>Others believe such ideas are pipe-dreams, while not disregarding the "realistic" possible applications of nano-technology.
<P>Some others warn of the danger such power can hold for humanity. Gray goo is... [END OF PREVIEW... FOR THE REST OF THIS BOOK VISIT US AT www.dlcbooks.com]