<COMMENT>Newspaper in an apartment in old quarter</COMMENT>

<P>La Tribune: No, we are not Picus. Yes, news agencies other than Picus DO EXIST.

<P>

<P>Anti-Augmentation Proponents Picket International Augmentation Summit in Barcelona, Spain

<P>-Associate Press

<P>Humanity Front, Clean Humankind, The Human Protection Society, and several other anti-augmentation NGO's have maintained a massive picket of the International Augmentation Summit since it began yesterday in Barcelona, Spain, the latest event in the divisive human augmentation debate.

<P> The International Augmentation Summit this year was set to cover the recent deluge of advancements in human augmentation and neurotransplant technologies, with representatives and scientists from most major universities and human enhancement corporations in attendance, including reps from mega-corp Tai Yong Medical (of note, however, is the absence of Sarif Industires, no doubt due to the terrorist attack they suffered last year).

<P>So far, marchers have stayed well within the confines of the law, peacefully exercising their right to free speech and assembly, but have done little to stem the march of scientific progress, as scientists and businessmen continue to flood the convention halls, many with their own personal security details.

<P>The Barcelona Police have declared a full alert, implementing city-wide riot prevention and control programs, while the Civil Guard has begun supplying extra man-power to the local law enforcement grids in an effort to relieve stress on local agencies.
<P>"We feel a lot better with the Civil Guard here, we were nearly at our limit, but their troops have interfaced with our local forces, and the few cases of crime in the city have been dealt with swiftly and efficiently," commented BPD Chief Alejandro Martin.

<P>The BPD and Spanish Civil Guard saw the situation as an opportuninty to introduce into active service their newly adpoted security bots, which have been deployed along the Convention Center's perimeter and with Special Tasks Detachment Patrols. "It is our hope that the event will provide us with enough data to determine the efficacy of bot deployments in urban peace-keeping capacities."

<P>Leading sociologist, Dorijan Pavao, has suggested that the vigor of the anti-augmentation protestors will quickly polarize society, engendering the births of a plethora of pro-augmentation groups. "This debate calls to mind the similar situation surrounding genetically modified food in the 2010s, when organizations opposing genetically modified food helped to spawn an even greater number of pro-GM groups, which eventually won out."