<P>Public-key cryptography refers to a widely used set of methods for transforming a written message into a form that can be read only by the intended recipient. This cryptographic approach involves the use of asymmetric key algorithms - that is, the non-message information (the public key) needed to transform the message to a secure form is different from the information needed to reverse the process (the private key). The person who anticipates receiving messages first creates both a public key and an associated private key, and publishes the public key. When someone wants to send a secure message to the creator of these keys, the sender encrypts it (transforms it to secure form) using the intended recipient's public key; to decrypt the message, the recipient uses the private key.
<P>Thus, unlike symmetric key algorithms, a public key algorithm does not require a secure initial exchange of one or more secret keys between the sender and receiver. The particular algorithm used for encrypting and decrypting was designed in such a way that, while it is easy for the intended recipient to generate the public and private keys and to decrypt the message using the private key, and while it is easy for the sender to encrypt the message using the public key, it is extremely difficult for anyone to figure out the private key based on their knowledge of the public key.
<P>The use of these keys also allows protection of the authenticity of a message by creating a digital signature of a message using the private key, which can be verified using the public key.
<P>Public key cryptography is a fundamental and widely used technology around the world. It is the approach which is employed by many cryptographic algorithms and cryptosystems. It underpins such Internet standards as Transport Layer Security (TLS) (successor to SSL), PGP, and GPG.
<P>In an asymmetric key encryption scheme, anyone can encrypt messages using the public key, but only the holder of the paired private key can decrypt. Security depends on the secrecy of that private key.
<P>In some related signature schemes, the private key is used to sign a message; but anyone can check the signature using the public key. Validity depends on private key security.