<P><JC>Contemporary History. Chinese Intervention.</JC>
<P>
<P>In 2018 China seized its opportunity and openly invaded Russia. Soon the Chinese army captured Vladivostok, Khabarovsk, and all the land to the east of Amur. The Chinese government claimed that the reason for the intervention was the protection of the oppressed Chinese population in Russia.
<P>2018 was declared "China year in Russia". Chinese destroyer "Haoudi" entered Vladivostok harbor with a friendly visit in the first days of November this year. By that time almost half of the Vladivostok population consisted of ethnic Chinese. For a week the destroyer crew took tourists onboard and made guided tours, and every evening they went out the city. On 9th of November all 49 crew members were mysteriously killed in a local Chinese night club, together with the rest of the visitors that night. The murderers have never been identified.
<P>The Communist Party of People's Republic of China Central Committee chairman Van Tsisan made a statement that the massacre was organized by the Russian nationalists with the implicit consent of Kremlin, and called for the immediate action. The next day Beijing presented an ultimatum: Russia which proved to be unable to ensure safety of ethnic Chinese in Vladivostok were to lease this city out to China for 100 years in the next 48 hours. In less than 24 hours, on 11th of November, Russian president Torshin rejected the ultimatum, declaring that "Russia's historical rights for Vladivostok could not be infringed". In reply, PRC Pacific Fleet set up a blockade of Vladivostok and Nakhodka.
<P>It took 2 years for China to prepare for the full-scale invasion. The campaign plan consisted of landing operations from the air and the sea combined with the bombing of the major military targets. Soon thereafter 22 Chinese regiments crossed the border and advanced inlands. The free access to the Russian markets allowed PRC to create an agency net in Khabarovsk, Vladivostok and Blagoveshchensk. The agents started attacks on the key communication and infrastructure objects - police stations, town halls, railroads and major highways. The disoriented civil authorities surrendered almost at once, the ghastly dreams of Chinese intervention suddenly turning into reality.
<P>PRC First Fleet supported the landing of the troops with the bombardment from the sea by a flotilla of several warships. The remaining Russian troops were surrounded and had to surrender. The Chinese stopped only after president Torshin openly threatened to break the UN moratorium on the use of nuclear weapons, whatever the costs. The peace treaty with China has never been signed, and the diplomatic relations are yet to be restored. Russia imposed a full embargo on trade with China, but smuggling continued to flourish. The rise in nationalism led to the numerous hate crimes toward the remaining Chinese, despite the fact that the absolute majority of them had been against the war.