<P><JC>Contemporary History. Caucasian War of Independence.</JC>
<P>
<P>When Northern Caucasia rose up in arms on 13th November 2013, Russia was unprepared to face such a challenge. A short but murderous war (November 2013 - June 2014) followed, in which the Russian Federation suffered a moral and military defeat.
<P>The civil convulsions and consequant riots that sprung up simultaneously in Dagestan, Ingushetia, and Chechnya soon broiled into open fighting. Although Moscow attempted to subdue the riots with nationwide mobilization, it wasn't enough, and the government soon faced massive civil disobedience. UN Secretary-General Shashii Tarure voiced the international objections to the Kremlin's aggression towards it's own people, and pushed for peace negotiations; "Russia's mistake was mobilizing not against an external threat, but against its own people. In so doing they have made it clear that they no longer consider these people to be their own."
<P>Russia launched it's first full-scale attack on Caucasia in January 2014, but in the following two months, managed to advance only 15 miles into enemy territoy.
<P>The Caucasian War of Independence is notable for being the first conflict involving military 'bots'. The newly formed Caucasian Emirate appropriated thousands of Western-made Delta-0 "Peacemakers", but soon discovered their relative unreliability in battle-field conditions. The bots suffered from poor endurance, yet fielded superior firepower and accuracy, making them ideal for ambushing Russian convoys.
<P>In response to these set-backs, the Russian military bombarded Grozny extensively with "Grad" artillery, in the hopes that sooner or later the republics would surrender. A direct urban assault seemed unfeasible given the heavy casualities and brutality Russian troops had suffered at the hands of the Caucasian rebels. Morale was further depressed by the unpopularity of the war among the general population. Few citizens saw a point in conquering the small unruly republic, which would have made it the third time in 20 years.
<P>By May 2014, the stagnant war had become a question of morale, 'who would break first?' Russia limited its offense to artillery and air strikes on hostile cities, while the Caucasian rebels continued to inflict heavy casualities on Russain ground forces with IEDs, mines, and guerilla tactics.
<P>Similar to the Cold War, Russia's ultimate defeat came not from technological or military inferiority, but from economic collapse. The Great Economic Crises (2008-2016) saw foreign investors almost completely pull out of the country, leading to government declared bankruptcy and a default on public bonds. Inflation rates peaked at an unprecedented 550%, and unemployment rates skyrocketed over 40% by the end of May. Suddenly, a huge mass of agitated unemployed marched on the government, with demonstrations in Moscow and St. Petersburg. A massive call for the end of the war and government accountability went up all over the nation, which local law enforcement agencies simply couldn't contain. At it's height, the Moscow demonstration boasted 100,000 civilians laying siege to the Kremlin.
<P>Faced with ever-growing public, economic, and international pressures, and the steady demoralization of its troops, the Russian Federation signed a peace treaty with the Caucasian Emirate on the 27th of March. On the following day, President Ivanov and his cabinet submitted their resignations, and the Russian government passed to a transitional committee of leading academics and military personnel...